README.rst, before:

async-timeout
=============
.. image:: https://travis-ci.com/aio-libs/async-timeout.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.com/aio-libs/async-timeout
.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/aio-libs/async-timeout/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
    :target: https://codecov.io/gh/aio-libs/async-timeout
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/async-timeout.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/async-timeout
.. image:: https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg
    :target: https://gitter.im/aio-libs/Lobby
    :alt: Chat on Gitter

asyncio-compatible timeout context manager.


Usage example
-------------


The context manager is useful in cases when you want to apply timeout
logic around block of code or in cases when ``asyncio.wait_for()`` is
not suitable. Also it's much faster than ``asyncio.wait_for()``
because ``timeout`` doesn't create a new task.

The ``timeout(timeout, *, loop=None)`` call returns a context manager
that cancels a block on *timeout* expiring::

   async with timeout(1.5):
       await inner()

1. If ``inner()`` is executed faster than in ``1.5`` seconds nothing
   happens.
2. Otherwise ``inner()`` is cancelled internally by sending
   ``asyncio.CancelledError`` into but ``asyncio.TimeoutError`` is
   raised outside of context manager scope.

*timeout* parameter could be ``None`` for skipping timeout functionality.


Context manager has ``.expired`` property for check if timeout happens
exactly in context manager::

   async with timeout(1.5) as cm:
       await inner()
   print(cm.expired)

The property is ``True`` if ``inner()`` execution is cancelled by
timeout context manager.

If ``inner()`` call explicitly raises ``TimeoutError`` ``cm.expired``
is ``False``.

Installation
------------

::

   $ pip install async-timeout

The library is Python 3 only!



Authors and License
-------------------

The module is written by Andrew Svetlov.

It's *Apache 2* licensed and freely available.

Commit message:

Add the elapsed property (#24)
- Until started it's 0.0
- Before exit it's now - start
- After exit it's exit - start

README.rst, after:

async-timeout
=============
.. image:: https://travis-ci.com/aio-libs/async-timeout.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.com/aio-libs/async-timeout
.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/aio-libs/async-timeout/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
    :target: https://codecov.io/gh/aio-libs/async-timeout
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/async-timeout.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/async-timeout
.. image:: https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg
    :target: https://gitter.im/aio-libs/Lobby
    :alt: Chat on Gitter

asyncio-compatible timeout context manager.


Usage example
-------------


The context manager is useful in cases when you want to apply timeout
logic around block of code or in cases when ``asyncio.wait_for()`` is
not suitable. Also it's much faster than ``asyncio.wait_for()``
because ``timeout`` doesn't create a new task.

The ``timeout(timeout, *, loop=None)`` call returns a context manager
that cancels a block on *timeout* expiring::

   async with timeout(1.5):
       await inner()

1. If ``inner()`` is executed faster than in ``1.5`` seconds nothing
   happens.
2. Otherwise ``inner()`` is cancelled internally by sending
   ``asyncio.CancelledError`` into but ``asyncio.TimeoutError`` is
   raised outside of context manager scope.

*timeout* parameter could be ``None`` for skipping timeout functionality.


Context manager has ``.expired`` property for check if timeout happens
exactly in context manager::

   async with timeout(1.5) as cm:
       await inner()
   print(cm.expired)

The property is ``True`` if ``inner()`` execution is cancelled by
timeout context manager.

If ``inner()`` call explicitly raises ``TimeoutError`` ``cm.expired``
is ``False``.


The ``.remaining`` and ``.elapsed`` properties can be used
for narrowing timeout of the inner code and logging::

   async with timeout(1.5) as cm:
       await inner()
       await another(timeout=cm.remaining)
   print(cm.elapsed)

Both properties are only updated while context manager is active.

Note that ``.elapsed + .remaining`` is not accurate and can exceed the timeout.

Installation
------------

::

   $ pip install async-timeout

The library is Python 3 only!



Authors and License
-------------------

The module is written by Andrew Svetlov.

It's *Apache 2* licensed and freely available.
